README.md, before:

# Omni-Dev Commit Check Action

A GitHub Action that validates commit messages against project guidelines using AI-powered analysis from [omni-dev](https://github.com/rust-works/omni-dev).

## Features

- AI-powered commit message validation
- Support for multiple AI providers (Anthropic Claude, OpenAI, Ollama, AWS Bedrock)
- Customizable commit guidelines
- Multiple output formats (text, JSON, YAML)
- Configurable severity levels and exit codes
- Batch processing for large commit ranges

## Quick Start

```yaml
name: Commit Check
on: [pull_request]

jobs:
  check-commits:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0  # Required for commit history

      - uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
        with:
          anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
```

## Inputs

### API Keys

| Input               | Description                          | Required |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------|----------|
| `anthropic-api-key` | Anthropic API key for Claude models  | No*      |
| `openai-api-key`    | OpenAI API key                       | No*      |

*At least one API key is required unless using Ollama.

### Provider Selection

| Input        | Description                       | Default |
|--------------|-----------------------------------|---------|
| `use-openai` | Use OpenAI instead of Anthropic   | `false` |
| `use-ollama` | Use Ollama for local inference    | `false` |

### Model Configuration

| Input   | Description                                                   | Default          |
|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `model` | AI model to use (e.g., `claude-opus-4-5-20251101`, `gpt-4.1`) | Provider default |

### Ollama Configuration

| Input             | Description        | Default                   |
|-------------------|--------------------|---------------------------|
| `ollama-base-url` | Ollama server URL  | `http://localhost:11434`  |
| `ollama-model`    | Ollama model name  | -                         |

### AWS Bedrock Configuration

| Input                | Description                 | Default |
|----------------------|-----------------------------|---------|
| `use-bedrock`        | Use AWS Bedrock for Claude  | `false` |
| `bedrock-base-url`   | AWS Bedrock endpoint URL    | -       |
| `bedrock-auth-token` | AWS Bedrock auth token      | -       |

### Commit Range Configuration

| Input          | Description                                      | Default         |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| `commit-range` | Commit range to check (e.g., `HEAD~5..HEAD`)     | Auto-detected   |
| `base-branch`  | Base branch to compare against                   | `main`/`master` |

### Guidelines Configuration

| Input         | Description                                      | Default         |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| `guidelines`  | Path to custom commit guidelines file            | Auto-discovered |
| `context-dir` | Custom context directory for loading guidelines  | `.omni-dev/`    |

### Output Configuration

| Input    | Description                              | Default |
|----------|------------------------------------------|---------|
| `format` | Output format: `text`, `json`, or `yaml` | `text`  |

### Behavior Configuration

| Input            | Description                                           | Default |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `strict`         | Exit with error code if any warnings found            | `false` |
| `quiet`          | Only show errors/warnings, suppress info-level output | `false` |
| `verbose`        | Show detailed analysis including model info           | `false` |
| `show-passing`   | Include passing commits in output                     | `false` |
| `no-suggestions` | Skip generating corrected message suggestions         | `false` |

### Performance Configuration

| Input        | Description                                  | Default |
|--------------|----------------------------------------------|---------|
| `batch-size` | Number of commits to process per AI request  | `4`     |

### Version Configuration

| Input     | Description                                | Default  |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------|----------|
| `version` | omni-dev version to use (e.g., `0.12.0`)   | `latest` |

### Main Branch Behavior

| Input          | Description                                                                          | Default |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `skip-on-main` | Skip commit check when running on main/master branch (cache will still be populated) | `true`  |

### Cache Configuration

| Input          | Description                                                | Default |
|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `cache-prefix` | Prefix to prepend to the cache key for the omni-dev binary | `''`    |

## Outputs

| Output            | Description                                             |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `result`          | Full check result in the specified format               |
| `exit-code`       | Exit code (0=success, 1=errors, 2=warnings with strict) |
| `total-commits`   | Total number of commits checked (JSON format only)      |
| `passing-commits` | Number of commits that passed (JSON format only)        |
| `error-count`     | Number of errors found (JSON format only)               |
| `warning-count`   | Number of warnings found (JSON format only)             |

## Exit Codes

| Code | Meaning                                    |
|------|--------------------------------------------|
| 0    | Success: All commits pass                  |
| 1    | One or more commits have errors            |
| 2    | Warnings found (only with `strict: true`)  |
| 3    | No commits found in range                  |

## Examples

### Basic Usage with Claude

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
```

### Using OpenAI

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    openai-api-key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
    use-openai: true
    model: gpt-4.1
```

### Strict Mode with Custom Guidelines

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    strict: true
    guidelines: .github/commit-guidelines.md
```

### Check Specific Commit Range

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    commit-range: ${{ github.event.pull_request.base.sha }}..${{ github.sha }}
```

### JSON Output for Further Processing

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  id: check
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    format: json

- name: Process results
  if: always()
  run: |
    echo "Total commits: ${{ steps.check.outputs.total-commits }}"
    echo "Errors: ${{ steps.check.outputs.error-count }}"
```

### Using AWS Bedrock

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    use-bedrock: true
    bedrock-base-url: ${{ secrets.BEDROCK_URL }}
    bedrock-auth-token: ${{ secrets.BEDROCK_TOKEN }}
    model: anthropic.claude-3-opus-20240229-v1:0
```

### PR Comment with Results

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  id: check
  continue-on-error: true
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    format: text
    verbose: true

- uses: actions/github-script@v7
  if: github.event_name == 'pull_request'
  with:
    script: |
      github.rest.issues.createComment({
        issue_number: context.issue.number,
        owner: context.repo.owner,
        repo: context.repo.repo,
        body: `## Commit Message Check\n\n\`\`\`\n${{ steps.check.outputs.result }}\n\`\`\``
      })
```

## Custom Guidelines

Create a `.omni-dev/commit-guidelines.md` file in your repository:

```markdown
# Project Commit Guidelines

## Severity Levels

| Severity | Sections             |
|----------|----------------------|
| error    | Format, Subject Line |
| warning  | Content, Body        |
| info     | Style                |

## Format
- Use conventional commit format: `type(scope): description`
- Valid types: feat, fix, docs, style, refactor, test, chore, ci

## Subject Line
- Keep under 72 characters
- Use imperative mood ("add" not "added")
- Do not end with a period

## Content
- Reference issue numbers where applicable
- Explain the "why" not just the "what"
```

## Requirements

- Repository must be checked out with `fetch-depth: 0` for full commit history
- Rust toolchain (automatically available on GitHub-hosted runners)
- At least one AI provider configured

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat(action,docs): add pre-built binary download support
Adds support for downloading pre-built omni-dev binaries from GitHub
releases instead of building from source via cargo install. This
significantly reduces action execution time and eliminates the need for
Rust toolchain setup in most cases.

Changes to action.yml:
- Add use-prebuilt-binary input (default: true)
- Add platform detection step to determine OS/architecture
- Add binary download and extraction step
- Update cache key to include architecture and installation method
- Make Rust toolchain setup conditional on binary availability
- Add HTTP status verification for binary URLs
- Support tar.gz (Linux/macOS) and zip (Windows) extraction

Changes to README.md:
- Document use-prebuilt-binary input and behavior
- List supported platforms (Linux x64, macOS ARM64, Windows x64)
- Add examples for disabling binary downloads
- Update requirements to clarify Rust toolchain is only needed for source builds
- Explain automatic fallback behavior when binaries unavailable

Supported platforms for pre-built binaries:
- Linux (x64)
- macOS (ARM64)
- Windows (x64)

The action automatically falls back to cargo install if:
- use-prebuilt-binary is set to false
- Platform is not supported
- Binary not found for specified version

Impact: Reduces typical action execution time from ~5 minutes (cargo
install) to ~30 seconds (binary download).

README.md, after:

# Omni-Dev Commit Check Action

A GitHub Action that validates commit messages against project guidelines using AI-powered analysis from [omni-dev](https://github.com/rust-works/omni-dev).

## Features

- AI-powered commit message validation
- Support for multiple AI providers (Anthropic Claude, OpenAI, Ollama, AWS Bedrock)
- Customizable commit guidelines
- Multiple output formats (text, JSON, YAML)
- Configurable severity levels and exit codes
- Batch processing for large commit ranges

## Quick Start

```yaml
name: Commit Check
on: [pull_request]

jobs:
  check-commits:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0  # Required for commit history

      - uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
        with:
          anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
```

## Inputs

### API Keys

| Input               | Description                          | Required |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------|----------|
| `anthropic-api-key` | Anthropic API key for Claude models  | No*      |
| `openai-api-key`    | OpenAI API key                       | No*      |

*At least one API key is required unless using Ollama.

### Provider Selection

| Input        | Description                       | Default |
|--------------|-----------------------------------|---------|
| `use-openai` | Use OpenAI instead of Anthropic   | `false` |
| `use-ollama` | Use Ollama for local inference    | `false` |

### Model Configuration

| Input   | Description                                                   | Default          |
|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `model` | AI model to use (e.g., `claude-opus-4-5-20251101`, `gpt-4.1`) | Provider default |

### Ollama Configuration

| Input             | Description        | Default                   |
|-------------------|--------------------|---------------------------|
| `ollama-base-url` | Ollama server URL  | `http://localhost:11434`  |
| `ollama-model`    | Ollama model name  | -                         |

### AWS Bedrock Configuration

| Input                | Description                 | Default |
|----------------------|-----------------------------|---------|
| `use-bedrock`        | Use AWS Bedrock for Claude  | `false` |
| `bedrock-base-url`   | AWS Bedrock endpoint URL    | -       |
| `bedrock-auth-token` | AWS Bedrock auth token      | -       |

### Commit Range Configuration

| Input          | Description                                      | Default         |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| `commit-range` | Commit range to check (e.g., `HEAD~5..HEAD`)     | Auto-detected   |
| `base-branch`  | Base branch to compare against                   | `main`/`master` |

### Guidelines Configuration

| Input         | Description                                      | Default         |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| `guidelines`  | Path to custom commit guidelines file            | Auto-discovered |
| `context-dir` | Custom context directory for loading guidelines  | `.omni-dev/`    |

### Output Configuration

| Input    | Description                              | Default |
|----------|------------------------------------------|---------|
| `format` | Output format: `text`, `json`, or `yaml` | `text`  |

### Behavior Configuration

| Input            | Description                                           | Default |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `strict`         | Exit with error code if any warnings found            | `false` |
| `quiet`          | Only show errors/warnings, suppress info-level output | `false` |
| `verbose`        | Show detailed analysis including model info           | `false` |
| `show-passing`   | Include passing commits in output                     | `false` |
| `no-suggestions` | Skip generating corrected message suggestions         | `false` |

### Performance Configuration

| Input        | Description                                  | Default |
|--------------|----------------------------------------------|---------|
| `batch-size` | Number of commits to process per AI request  | `4`     |

### Version Configuration

| Input     | Description                                | Default  |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------|----------|
| `version` | omni-dev version to use (e.g., `0.12.0`)   | `latest` |

### Main Branch Behavior

| Input          | Description                                                                          | Default |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `skip-on-main` | Skip commit check when running on main/master branch (cache will still be populated) | `true`  |

### Cache Configuration

| Input          | Description                                                | Default |
|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `cache-prefix` | Prefix to prepend to the cache key for the omni-dev binary | `''`    |

### Installation Method

| Input                 | Description                                                                         | Default |
|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `use-prebuilt-binary` | Download pre-built binary from GitHub releases instead of building from source      | `true`  |

By default, the action downloads pre-built binaries from [omni-dev releases](https://github.com/rust-works/omni-dev/releases), which is significantly faster than building from source.

**Available platforms for pre-built binaries:**
- Linux (x64)
- macOS (ARM64)
- Windows (x64)

If a pre-built binary is not available for your platform or version, the action will display a warning with available options and automatically fall back to building from source via `cargo install`.

To explicitly disable binary downloads and always build from source:

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    use-prebuilt-binary: false
```

## Outputs

| Output            | Description                                             |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `result`          | Full check result in the specified format               |
| `exit-code`       | Exit code (0=success, 1=errors, 2=warnings with strict) |
| `total-commits`   | Total number of commits checked (JSON format only)      |
| `passing-commits` | Number of commits that passed (JSON format only)        |
| `error-count`     | Number of errors found (JSON format only)               |
| `warning-count`   | Number of warnings found (JSON format only)             |

## Exit Codes

| Code | Meaning                                    |
|------|--------------------------------------------|
| 0    | Success: All commits pass                  |
| 1    | One or more commits have errors            |
| 2    | Warnings found (only with `strict: true`)  |
| 3    | No commits found in range                  |

## Examples

### Basic Usage with Claude

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
```

### Using OpenAI

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    openai-api-key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
    use-openai: true
    model: gpt-4.1
```

### Strict Mode with Custom Guidelines

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    strict: true
    guidelines: .github/commit-guidelines.md
```

### Check Specific Commit Range

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    commit-range: ${{ github.event.pull_request.base.sha }}..${{ github.sha }}
```

### JSON Output for Further Processing

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  id: check
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    format: json

- name: Process results
  if: always()
  run: |
    echo "Total commits: ${{ steps.check.outputs.total-commits }}"
    echo "Errors: ${{ steps.check.outputs.error-count }}"
```

### Using AWS Bedrock

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  with:
    use-bedrock: true
    bedrock-base-url: ${{ secrets.BEDROCK_URL }}
    bedrock-auth-token: ${{ secrets.BEDROCK_TOKEN }}
    model: anthropic.claude-3-opus-20240229-v1:0
```

### PR Comment with Results

```yaml
- uses: rust-works/omni-dev-commit-check@v1
  id: check
  continue-on-error: true
  with:
    anthropic-api-key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
    format: text
    verbose: true

- uses: actions/github-script@v7
  if: github.event_name == 'pull_request'
  with:
    script: |
      github.rest.issues.createComment({
        issue_number: context.issue.number,
        owner: context.repo.owner,
        repo: context.repo.repo,
        body: `## Commit Message Check\n\n\`\`\`\n${{ steps.check.outputs.result }}\n\`\`\``
      })
```

## Custom Guidelines

Create a `.omni-dev/commit-guidelines.md` file in your repository:

```markdown
# Project Commit Guidelines

## Severity Levels

| Severity | Sections             |
|----------|----------------------|
| error    | Format, Subject Line |
| warning  | Content, Body        |
| info     | Style                |

## Format
- Use conventional commit format: `type(scope): description`
- Valid types: feat, fix, docs, style, refactor, test, chore, ci

## Subject Line
- Keep under 72 characters
- Use imperative mood ("add" not "added")
- Do not end with a period

## Content
- Reference issue numbers where applicable
- Explain the "why" not just the "what"
```

## Requirements

- Repository must be checked out with `fetch-depth: 0` for full commit history
- Rust toolchain (only required if using `use-prebuilt-binary: false` or if pre-built binaries are not available for your platform)
- At least one AI provider configured

## License

MIT
