.omni-dev/commit-guidelines.md, before:

# omni-dev-commit-check Commit Guidelines

This project follows conventional commit format with specific requirements.

## Severity Levels

| Severity | Sections                                                               |
|----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| error    | Commit Format, Types, Scopes, Subject Line, Accuracy, Breaking Changes |
| warning  | Body Guidelines                                                        |
| info     | Subject Line Style                                                     |

## Commit Format

```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

Multiple scopes can be specified using comma separation:

```
<type>(<scope1>,<scope2>): <description>
```

## Types

Required. Must be one of:

| Type       | Use for                                               |
|------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| `feat`     | New features or enhancements to existing features     |
| `fix`      | Bug fixes                                             |
| `docs`     | Documentation changes only                            |
| `refactor` | Code refactoring without behavior changes             |
| `chore`    | Maintenance tasks, dependency updates, config changes |
| `test`     | Test additions or modifications                       |
| `ci`       | CI/CD pipeline changes                                |

## Scopes

Required. Use scopes defined in `.omni-dev/scopes.yaml`:

- `action` - GitHub Action definition and composite steps
- `docs` - Documentation (README, examples, guidelines)
- `ci` - GitHub workflows and automation

Multiple scopes are allowed when a change spans multiple areas (e.g., `fix(action,ci): ...`).

## Subject Line

- Keep under 72 characters total
- Use imperative mood: "add feature" not "added feature" or "adds feature"
- Be specific: avoid vague terms like "update", "fix stuff", "changes"

## Subject Line Style

- Use lowercase for the description
- No period at the end

## Accuracy

The commit message must accurately reflect the actual code changes:

- **Type must match changes**: Don't use `feat` for a bug fix, or `fix` for new functionality
- **Scope must match files**: The scope should reflect which area of code was modified
- **Description must be truthful**: Don't claim changes that weren't made
- **Mention significant changes**: If you add new inputs, outputs, or change behavior, mention it

## Body Guidelines

For significant changes (new inputs/outputs or behavior changes), include a body:

- Explain what was changed and why
- Describe the approach taken
- Note any breaking changes or migration requirements
- Use bullet points for multiple related changes
- Reference issues in footer: `Closes #123` or `Fixes #456`

## Breaking Changes

For breaking changes:
- Add `!` after type/scope: `feat(action)!: change default batch-size`
- Include `BREAKING CHANGE:` footer with migration instructions

## Examples

### Simple change
```
fix(action): handle missing API key gracefully
```

### Feature with body
```
feat(action): add AWS Bedrock provider support

Adds new inputs for AWS Bedrock configuration:
- use-bedrock: Enable Bedrock provider
- bedrock-base-url: Bedrock endpoint URL
- bedrock-auth-token: Authentication token

Closes #5
```

### Documentation update
```
docs(docs): add examples for JSON output processing
```

### Multiple scopes
```
feat(action,ci): add debug logging support
```

### Breaking change
```
feat(action)!: change default output format to JSON

BREAKING CHANGE: The default format is now JSON instead of text.
Users relying on text output must add `format: text` to their workflow.
```

Commit message:

docs(docs): add scope specificity guidelines for matching type/scope
Adds a new "Scope Specificity" section to the commit guidelines that
clarifies when it's acceptable to use the same value for both type and
scope (e.g., ci(ci), docs(docs)). The guideline explains that while
this is allowed when the change category matches the code area, more
specific scopes are preferred when available.

Also updates the severity table to classify "Scope Specificity" as a
warning-level check, ensuring it's enforced consistently with other
best practices.

This improves clarity for contributors by explicitly documenting a
common pattern while encouraging more precise scope selection.

.omni-dev/commit-guidelines.md, after:

# omni-dev-commit-check Commit Guidelines

This project follows conventional commit format with specific requirements.

## Severity Levels

| Severity | Sections                                                               |
|----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| error    | Commit Format, Types, Scopes, Subject Line, Accuracy, Breaking Changes |
| warning  | Body Guidelines, Scope Specificity                                     |
| info     | Subject Line Style                                                     |

## Commit Format

```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

Multiple scopes can be specified using comma separation:

```
<type>(<scope1>,<scope2>): <description>
```

## Scope Specificity

The type and scope may be the same (e.g., `ci(ci)`, `docs(docs)`) when the change category matches the area of code modified. However, prefer a more specific scope when possible (e.g., `ci(action)` over `ci(ci)` if the CI change is in the action definition).

## Types

Required. Must be one of:

| Type       | Use for                                               |
|------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| `feat`     | New features or enhancements to existing features     |
| `fix`      | Bug fixes                                             |
| `docs`     | Documentation changes only                            |
| `refactor` | Code refactoring without behavior changes             |
| `chore`    | Maintenance tasks, dependency updates, config changes |
| `test`     | Test additions or modifications                       |
| `ci`       | CI/CD pipeline changes                                |

## Scopes

Required. Use scopes defined in `.omni-dev/scopes.yaml`:

- `action` - GitHub Action definition and composite steps
- `docs` - Documentation (README, examples, guidelines)
- `ci` - GitHub workflows and automation

Multiple scopes are allowed when a change spans multiple areas (e.g., `fix(action,ci): ...`).

## Subject Line

- Keep under 72 characters total
- Use imperative mood: "add feature" not "added feature" or "adds feature"
- Be specific: avoid vague terms like "update", "fix stuff", "changes"

## Subject Line Style

- Use lowercase for the description
- No period at the end

## Accuracy

The commit message must accurately reflect the actual code changes:

- **Type must match changes**: Don't use `feat` for a bug fix, or `fix` for new functionality
- **Scope must match files**: The scope should reflect which area of code was modified
- **Description must be truthful**: Don't claim changes that weren't made
- **Mention significant changes**: If you add new inputs, outputs, or change behavior, mention it

## Body Guidelines

For significant changes (new inputs/outputs or behavior changes), include a body:

- Explain what was changed and why
- Describe the approach taken
- Note any breaking changes or migration requirements
- Use bullet points for multiple related changes
- Reference issues in footer: `Closes #123` or `Fixes #456`

## Breaking Changes

For breaking changes:
- Add `!` after type/scope: `feat(action)!: change default batch-size`
- Include `BREAKING CHANGE:` footer with migration instructions

## Examples

### Simple change
```
fix(action): handle missing API key gracefully
```

### Feature with body
```
feat(action): add AWS Bedrock provider support

Adds new inputs for AWS Bedrock configuration:
- use-bedrock: Enable Bedrock provider
- bedrock-base-url: Bedrock endpoint URL
- bedrock-auth-token: Authentication token

Closes #5
```

### Documentation update
```
docs(docs): add examples for JSON output processing
```

### Multiple scopes
```
feat(action,ci): add debug logging support
```

### Breaking change
```
feat(action)!: change default output format to JSON

BREAKING CHANGE: The default format is now JSON instead of text.
Users relying on text output must add `format: text` to their workflow.
```
